{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red83\green83\blue83;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c40000\c40000\c40000;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The story opens as Archilde returns from Portland, Oregon, where he made a passable living playing his fiddle in a show house. While he admits some success out there in the real world, something is evidently missing in his soul and he returns home to get a taste of his former life.\
\
But he realizes immediately that his life had changed. The narrator reminds us, \'93When you came home to your Indian mother you had to remember that it was a different world.\'94 (McNickle 3) It seems, like many of us who have been away from home yet long for a connection with our past, Archilde wanted to renew his familial and cultural ties. Ultimately, however, he desired to leave the reservation for bigger things.\
\
Yet upon his return, his mother, Catharine, expected him to remain at home. For, \'93An Indian boy, she thought, belonged with his people.\'94 (McNickle 2) So Archilde decides to extend his stay a few weeks \'96 which turns into months \'96 since Catharine seems to be of ill health and lonely. At first this is a laudable decision but he slowly loses sight of a driving vision for his life.\
\
Which is the complaint of his father. Max Leon is bitter that none of his sons \'96 \'93Seven sons, they might have been seven dogs!\'94 (McNickle 26) \'96 made anything of themselves. Or more accurately, they didn\'92t join him in running the ranch. Instead, they all left to go \'93back to the blanket\'94 (McNickle 25) - a derisive racial slur. In Max\'92s mind it\'92s either the lazy reservation Indian or the hardworking ranching Spaniard. And while Archilde is neither lazy nor ungrateful, he does not want to take up the yoke of running the ranch. He responds to his father\'92s dual expectations in anger and frustration.\
\
Eventually Max is sensitized to Archilde\'92s conflicted emotions by his old friend Father Grepilloux. So Max encourages his son to talk to the priest about using his musical talent within the context of reservation life. After meeting with Archilde, Father Grepilloux is ecstatic. He believes he has found an Indian of sufficient talent and motivation to serve as a kind of saving representative of the Indian people. Here at last is a shining product of the religious and cultural assimilative process (that had failed when applied to previous generations, but never mind that)!\
\
One can imagine the pressure that Archilde felt to fulfill such a role, even though much of Father Grepilloux\'92s hopes remained unspoken. So for the sort term, since he is interested in music Archilde does accept the priest\'92s offer to continue his training. This seems to be a worthy response, but again, Archilde soon loses steam as it\'92s not a decision that flows out of a life purpose but is rather a reaction to someone else\'92s expectations.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 Archilde is the mixedblood, child of a SpanishAmerican father and a full-blood Salish mother. Of course, what exactly being mixedblood entails is dependent upon where others choose to locate him and, to a lesser extent, where he locates himself. Which gets at the heart of Archilde\'92s identity conflict: is he white or Salish? American or Indian? Does he conform to a Salish model of masculinity or an American one? Or is there some way to disrupt these binaries and move beyond them?\
\
As a powerful member of the community, Max also represents hegemonic masculinity in the novel\'97in tandem with another character with whom he is closely aligned: the Catholic priest Father Grepilloux. \
\
the Fathers\'92 express purpose in educating the young Native boys is to redress the wrong-headedness of their Native naivety and is both corrective and assimilative\
\
At the novel\'92s beginning, it is apparent that whatever conception of his own Native identity Catharine and Modeste might provide has been overridden by the sort imposed by the Fathers, and Archilde appears to be exploring his roots in the community for the first time.\
\
At the novel\'92s start, Father Grepilloux\'92s paternal attitude toward the Salish and his faith in the inherent rightness of his project\'97namely the Catholic education and indoctrination of several generations of young Salish, Archilde included\'97have been shaken. Discussing the problem with Max, he muses: Somehow or other the bad Indians that you were just speaking of have come upon the scene. Who turned them loose, I don\'92t know. They spoiled your boys for you. I\'92m afraid they have also taken many children from the Church. (45)\
\
. Grepilloux agrees that \'93a change has come over these children\'94 and points to the sudden appearance of that nebulous, pernicious group: the bad Indians (45). His subsequent recollections of an earlier time, including the story of Big Paul, are a desire to show Max what those \'93children,\'94 the Salish before their abrupt and inexplicable corruption at the hands of the bad Indians, were once like. \
\
Father Grepilloux offers this analysis in summation: \'93You have least to complain of. You lose your sons, but these people have lost a way of life, and with it their pride, their dignity, their strength. Men like Jeff Irving have murdered their fathers and their sons with impunity. Gross-natured officials have despoiled them, they are insulted when they present grievances. Of course\'94\'97since Grepilloux was a priest, and a faithful one, he added what in his heart seemed to balance all that he had set against it\'97\'93they have God.\'94 (59)\
\
\'93they had lost a way of life, as Father Grepilloux said, but\'97damn it! Why couldn\'92t just one of his sons have the sense and the courage to make himself a new way of life!\'94 (75). This is the expectation in which Archilde is ensnared, that he should have \'93sense\'94 and \'93courage\'94 enough to negotiate the conflicting expectations and create his own place in the world. The imperative is being placed on Archilde specifically\'97who Max considers his last uncorrupted son\'97to take his fate into his own hands and salvage himself and his community. \
\
\
\
Boarding School\
\
One illuminating scene has Archilde walking into the community church for the first time since his return to the community and feeling \'93quivers of fear\'94 as he recalls a childhood \'93lived in the perpetual tyranny of the life-everlasting,\'94 a cheerless concept associated with images of the damned falling into hell, and priests performing puppet shows in which sinners, child-like and happily unaware of their sin, are dragged into hell by Satan (100).\
\
His attempts to confront and dispel these fears as an adult are interrupted when a bat flies down from the roof and brushes against his head, recalling all of the hellish images from his childhood, and he runs from the church. Outside, Archilde marvels that \'93it was inexplicable, but the dread which had been instilled into the mind of the child never quite disappeared from the mind of the grown man\'94 (106).\
\
He could not explain it, but he had taken to wondering about his grandsons. He felt that somewhere within their mysterious natures was an 30 inner core of responsiveness, and if possible it could be reached. Nothing was accomplished with the whip, he had seen that; but friendliness, now, seemed to work miracles. Too bad he had had to wait until he was an old man to learn that.\
\
\
Natives\
\
Catharine, for example, begins as a devout Catholic who attempts to synthesize aspects of traditional Salish life with the teachings of Christianity but ultimately renounces her faith.\
\
Archilde\'92s conscious reactions to the aims of the Fathers and Max are largely dismissive, anticipating his rejection of Catholicism is visceral and total. Yet, at first, he is also utterly scornful of the viewpoint offered him by Modeste and Catharine. At a gathering of the Salish to celebrate his homecoming, Archilde exhibits the detachment of an anthropologist, sure that what\'92s being displayed has little real bearing on him. He thinks: In the way he was learning the world, neither Modeste nor his mother were important. They were not real people. Buffaloes were not real to him either, yet he could go and look at buffaloes every day if he wished, behind the wire enclosure of the Biological Survey reserve\'85 to him they were just fenced up animals that couldn\'92t be shot, though you could take photographs of them. (62)\
\
Furthermore, his equation of elders and buffalo is characteristic of the larger American perception that Native culture is a curious and obsolete relic, no longer a significant part of the world and soon to be extinct. \
\
Archilde responds angrily that \'93you people talk about the old days as if they were here. But they\'92re gone, dead. So don\'92t tell me what I ought to do to be like that\'94 (63). He rejects their cultural expectations on the grounds that they are anachronistic and irrelevant in the modern world. \
\
As Modeste tells Archilde, the Salish sought guns. Where Grepilloux interprets the Salish\'92s receptiveness to white men as a desire for Catholicism, Modeste sums it up as a necessary step toward acquiring guns: Today we can say that we never had the blood of any white man on our hands. It was not that we feared them, but we had to have their guns. And we could not stop being friendly once we had got some guns\'85 because we had to have more guns. (71)\
\
This new kind of fighting just meant that more men were killed. It was bitter fighting. And we gained nothing\'85 A man feared to go hunting alone or in a small company\'85 We dared not leave our villages unprotected for our enemies would shoot our women and children and carry everything off. (73)
\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 \
}